Privacy Policy

1. Use of Personal Data
Docear will collect, process and save all personal data (e.g. name, user name, email-address), which are communicated to Docear in connection with the registration under http://www.docear.org and the use of the software, in accordance with the provisions of German Data Protection laws.
Docear will not share any personal data with third parties. Docear may make use of personal data for the purposes of analysing the use of the software, improving the software and recommending literature or other products only if the user has declared consent to such use. Docear will inform users of any amendments to the policy regarding the use of data and give users the opportunity to declare their consent to the amended policy.
Docear engages services of third parties, e.g. services of a hosting provider. The duries and obligations arising from the provisions of German Data Protection laws equally apply to all third party services providers. 
2. User’s Rights in respect of his Data
According to the German Data Protection Act, the user is entitled to gratuitously demand information as to the data saved by Docear and to demand correction, blocking or deletion of his data. 
3. Enquiries and Contact
Users may send an email to info@docear.org to make enquiries with respect to the use of data or to revoke their declaration of consent to use of their data.
4. Newsletter and New Releases
Newsletter and other information will only be forwarded to users upon their express wish at the time of registration.
5. Use of Cookies
Docear uses so-called „Cookies“ to analyse the use of the software and to improve the functionality of the software.
A cookie is a small file containing a string of characters that is sent to the user’s computer when he visits a website. When the website is visited again, the cookie allows that site to recognize the browser. Cookies may store user preferences and other information. The user may reset the browser to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. However, some website features or services may not function properly without cookies.
6. Use of Google Analytics
Docear uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. (“Google”). Google Analytics uses “cookies” (see above). The information generated by the cookie about the use of the website (including the IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States. If IP anonymisation is activated on the Docear website, the IP address is abridged by Google within the European Union. Only in exceptional cases, the full IP address is transmitted to the Google servers and then abridged. Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating the use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google.
7. Use of Social Plugins
Docear uses social plug-ins of social networks on its website. When using the Docear website, it is possible that the user’s web-browser connects with the servers of the social network and transmits the information that the Docear website was retrieved. By logging out the social network’s website before visting the Docear website, the user may prevent that use-related data are collected and saved by the social network server. For information as to which type of data the social networks collect and further information as to data and privacy policy, Docear may refer to the Privacy Policies of the social networks, whose plug-ins Docear currently uses.
